Hello and welcome back.
So in this task, we're going to work with the dataset we've
prepared from the previous task To find a good measure
for our analysis, this measure should be represented
as a number which can describe the spread of the virus
in a country.
If you look at this plot, which represents cumulative number
of conference cases, you already know this plot.
The time period of this plot is from 22nd of 
the January until 30th of April.
Uh, Now let's plot this.
Let's change the time period and plot this for only
1st 3 days.
so basically from 22nd of the January
until 25th of January.
For that, what we can do is to say, corona dataset aggregated.
dot loc
I loc China, get the data related to china.
And then I say I want it from the beginning until the third
element.
It means the 1st 3 days of the pandemic in China and then
plot it to see what the data looks like.
Okay, so we run it.
Here is the plot, but as you can see in 22nd of January
we had 550 confirmed cases and after 24 hours later
in 23rd of the January, we had 650 infected cases.
So it means that in 24 hours, 100 new cases infected cases
has been recorded in this day.
And, as you can see from 23rd off the generator
until 24th off the January Ah, actually, we had so
in 24th of January we had 900 cases and in 23rd of January
we had 650 cases.
So it means that in one day the next day Ah, the growth off
infected cases was 250.
So now what if we say we want to find and measure which
can describe the spread of the virus in this period?
So we can say that the spread of the virus is the average
number off new confirmed cases or we can say maximum number
off new cases which we were going for the maximum a number
of infected cases.
So what we have to do for our period, it means that what
you want to do, we want to calculate the maximum infection
rate or maximum number off new infected cases, in our,
period.
So let's do .
If you say corona dataset aggregated, I say loc again on I get data
related to China and what I want to do What I can do
for finding the rate off this curve, I can calculate
the first derivative of this curve can say diff
this method will calculate the first derivative off
this data and then plot it okay if I run this , uh, as you
can see, the plot looks like this,
this plot shows us
the change in infection rate day by day in our period.
And what we are looking for is this maximum number.
So what we can do for calculating that we can say again
Ah, Corona dataset aggregated.
I loc the China again and I calculate the first derrivative
and I take a max by putting Max method at the end
Of this I run this.
This whole thing will return number in one day.
Ah, so this number can tell us in one day in 24 hours
15,136 new infected cases has been recorded in Only 24 hours.
And for example, if I do this again for another country
like Italy, first in the first derivative and then take
the max I run to say again.
So it says in one day, 6557 new cases has been recorded.
Okay, I want you to pause the video and find this number
for Spain in this block.
Okay, That's great.
So it says in one day in Spain, 9630 people has been infected.
So what we want to do here is to find the maximum infection
rate for all of the countries.
We can do this by using a simple loop.
Okay, so I I create a variable called countries.
This is the list of the name of the all of the countries
that we have.
We can get it from corona dataset aggregated our data frame.
dot index. 
This will return the indices of our dataframe
as you know, indices of our data frame.
Is the country names and  
I easily cast it to list. okay.
And then I create an empty list I call it.
Ah, maximum max infection rates.
This is an empty list, so I'll create a for loop, I say
for each country.
Or, let's say, for C in countries, what I can do is
calculates This maximum infection rate for every country.
So I can say Corona aggregated and I loc and pass in C.
 I calculate the first derivative, and then I'll take
the max.
As you know this thing .
This line of code will return us and number and directly.
We can append this to our max infection rates.
list dot append 
and everything is
fine. Okay, so if we run this, go to see if it works, okay,
let's type maximum infection rates to see what is inside
of it. So as you can see, we have calculated the maximum
infection rate for every each of the country that we have.
So it's better to put these values as a column in our data
frame. Corona dataset aggregated. 
So for doing this, I can say corona dataset aggregated
I will create a new column.
I name it Maximum infection rate for each country ,
and I put it equaled to the list that we have created.
Okay, if I run this So here we can say corona.
data aggregated dot head,to see what we have.
Okay, So for each country, we have data related
to cumulative number of cases.
And at the end of this, we have the maximum infection we added
 this new column, As you know, we don't need these values
this columns anymore.
So we just need to, delete all of this columns.
So I prefer to create a new data frame so I can say corona data
it is a new variable and I equality to pd dot Dataframe 
and then
and then
I will pass in corona dataset
aggregated.
and I will pass in this columns only maximum infection rate.
So if you run this and we look a  head 1st 5 rows
of this data set the dataframe.
I can say dot head and run this, and here you have our data.
Okay, that's it for this task.
In the next ask, we will import the data set related to World
Happiness report and we will prepare it for our analysis.
See you in the next task.